Hey guys, I'm Dina from simplyhomecooked.com and today I'll be showing you how to make these fluffy and moist blueberry muffins
They are loaded with a ton of blueberries and they're topped with a simple and delicious brown sugar streusel
So you want to start off by combining all of your dry ingredients
So in a large bowl combine two cups of all-purpose flour, a teaspoon of baking powder,
half a teaspoon of baking soda, and a quarter teaspoon of salt
Then whisk it all together and reserve one tablespoon of that flour mixture
Now mix that reserve tablespoon of the flour mixture with one-and-a-half cups of fresh blueberries
The reason why we add that little tiny bit of flour to those blueberries is when we add them to the batter
During baking the blueberries don't sink as fast when they're coated in flour
Now add three eggs into a large bowl and whisk them on high speed using an electric mixer
You want to do this for about three minutes until the eggs become fluffy and pale
Then continue beating the eggs as you slowly add one cup of granulated sugar
You'll want to keep beating those eggs for about three more minutes
So the key to really fluffy muffins is well beaten eggs
Now you want to add a teaspoon of vanilla extract and a tablespoon of fresh lemon juice
Now continue beating the egg mixture as you slowly add 3/4 cups of heavy cream
Now you can begin adding your dry ingredients, but don't do it all at once
So get a sifter out and then add about a third of that flour mixture at a time with mixing in between
Once you've got all of your dry ingredients well combined into the muffin batter
Continue beating with your electric mixer as you slowly gradually add in four tablespoons of melted unsalted butter
All right
Now the last and final step is adding in those blueberries and at this point you want to fold it in with a spatula
Now line your muffin tin with cupcake liners and begin scooping the batter out using a large cookie scoop. I
Like to top my blueberry muffins with a few extra blueberries on top, but that's totally optional
And before the muffins go into the oven you want to make that simple streusel. In a small bowl combine a 1 tablespoon of unsalted
cold cubed butter,
2 tablespoons of all-purpose flour, a pinch of salt, a teaspoon of cinnamon, and 3 tablespoons of brown sugar
Mash that all together using a fork until the ingredients are well combined and they have a crumbly texture to them
Now top the blueberry muffins with the streusel topping and bake them in the oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for about 35 minutes
I hope you guys enjoyed watching this video and if you did, please be sure to share it, like and subscribe to our channel
So you guys never miss out on any of our new recipes. See you next time